## SQL ORDER BY

**In this lesson I'll cover:**
- Sorting data with SQL `ORDER BY`
- Ordering data by multiple columns
- Using comments
- Practice problems

#### Sorting data with SQL ORDER BY

Once you've learned how to **filter data**, it's time to learn how to sort data. The `ORDER BY` clause allows you to reorder your results based on the data in one or more columns. First, take a look at how the table is ordered by default:

```sql
SELECT * FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
```

Now let's see what happens when we order by one of the columns:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 ORDER BY artist
```

You'll notice that the results are now ordered alphabetically from a to z based on the content in the `artist` column. This is referred to as ascending order, and it's SQL's default. If you order a numerical column in ascending order, it will start with smaller (or most negative) numbers, with each successive row having a higher numerical value than the previous. Here's an example using a numerical column:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year = 2013
 ORDER BY year_rank
```

If you'd like your results in the opposite order (referred to as descending order), you need to add the `DESC` operator:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year = 2013
 ORDER BY year_rank DESC
```

### Ordering data by multiple columns

You can also order by mutiple columns. This is particularly useful if your data falls into categories and you'd like to organize rows by date, for example, but keep all of the results within a given category together. This example query makes the most recent years come first but orders top-ranks songs before lower-ranked songs:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
  WHERE year_rank <= 3
 ORDER BY year DESC, year_rank
```

You can see a couple things from the above query: First, columns in the `ORDER BY` clause must be separated by commas. Second, the `DESC` operator is only applied to the column that precedes it. Finally, the results are sorted by the first column mentioned (`year`), then by `year_rank` afterward. You can see the difference the order makes by running the following query:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year_rank <= 3
 ORDER BY year_rank, year DESC
```

Finally, you can make your life a little easier by substituting numbers for column names in the `ORDER BY` clause. The numbers will correspond to the order in which you list columns in the `SELECT` clause. For example, the following query is exactly equivalent to the previous query:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year_rank <= 3
 ORDER BY 2, 1 DESC
```

### Using comments

You can "comment out" pieces of code by adding combinations of characters. In other words, you can specify parts of your query that will not actually be treated like SQL code. It can be helpful to include comments that explain your thinking so that you can easily remember what you intended to do if you ever want to revisit your work. Commenting can also be useful if you want to test variations on your query while keeping all of your code intact.

You can use `--` (two dashes) to comment out everything to the right of them on a given line:

```sql
SELECT *  --This comment won't affect the way the code runs
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year = 2013
```

You can also leave comments across multiple lines using `/*` to begin the comment and `*/` to close it:

```sql
/* Here's a comment so long and descriptive that
it could only fit on multiple lines. Fortunately,
it, too, will not affect how this code runs. */
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year = 2013
```