## SQL IN 

**In this lesson we'll cover:**
- The SQL IN operator
- Practice problem

### The SQL IN operator

`IN` is a **logical operator** in SQL that allows you to specify a list of values that you'd like to include in the results. For example, the following query of data from the **Billboard Music Charts** will return results for which the `year_rank` column is equal to one of the values in the list:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE year_rank IN (1, 2, 3)
```

#### Note:

This SQL query selects all columns from the `billboard_top_100_year_end` table in the `tutorial` database where the `year_rank` column is equal to 1, 2, or 3.

The `SELECT *` statement selects all columns from the table. The `FROM` clause specifies the table to select data from. The `WHERE` clause filters the results to only include rows where the `year_rank` column is equal to 1, 2, or 3.

As with **comparison operators**, you can use non-numerical values, but they need to go inside single quotes. Regardless of the data type, the values in the list must be separated by commas. Here's another example:

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE artist IN ('Taylor Swift', 'Usher', 'Ludacris')
```

### Practice Problem

Write a query that shows all of the entries for Elvis and M.C. Hammer.

**Hint:** M.C. Hammer is actually on the list under multiple names, so you may need to first write a query to figure out exactly how M.C. Hammer is listed. You're likely to face similar problems that require some exploration in many real-life scenarios.

#### Solution

```sql
SELECT *
  FROM tutorial.billboard_top_100_year_end
 WHERE group_name IN ('M.C. Hammer', 'Hammer', 'Elvis Presley')
```

