## SQL COUNT

**In this lesson I'll cover:**
- Counting all rows
- Counting individual columns
- Counting non-numerical columns
- Practice problem

### Counting all rows

`COUNT` is a **SQL aggregate function** for counting the number of rows in a particular column. `COUNT` is the easiest aggregate function to begin with because veriftying your results is extremely simple. Let's begin using * to select all rows from the **Apple stock prices dataset:**

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*)
  FROM tutorial.aapl_historical_stock_price
```

_Note: Typing `COUNT(1)` has the same effect as `COUNT(*)`. Which one you use is a matter of personal preference_

### Counting individual columns

Things start to get a little tricky when you want to count individual columns. The following code will provide a count of all of rows in which the `high` column **is not null.**

```sql
SELECT COUNT(high)
  FROM tutorial.aapl_historical_stock_price
```

You'll notice that this result is lower than what you got with `COUNT(*)`. That's because `high` has some nulls. In this case, we've deleted some data to make the lesson interesting, but analysts often run into naturally-occurring null rows.

For example, imagine you've got a table with one column showing email addresses for everyone you sent a marketing email to, and another column showing the date and time that each person opened the email. If someone didn't open the email, the date/time field would likely be null.

### Counting non-numerical columns

One nice thing about `COUNT` is that you can use it on non-numerical columns:

```sql
SELECT COUNT(date)
  FROM tutorial.aapl_historical_stock_price
```

The above query returns the same result as the previous: 3555. It's hard to tell because each row has a different `date` value, but `COUNT` simply counts the total number of non-null rows, not the distinct values.

You might have also noticed that the column header in the results just reads "count." We recommend naming your columns so that they make a little more sense to anyone else who views your work. As mentioned in an earlier lesson, it's best to use lower case letters and underscores. You can add column names (also called aliases) using `AS`:

```sql
SELECT COUNT(date) AS count_of_date
  FROM tutorial.aapl_historical_stock_price
```

If you must use spaces, you will need to use double quotes.

```sql
SELECT COUNT(date) AS "Count Of Date"
  FROM tutorial.aapl_historical_stock_price
```

_Note: This is really the only place in which you'll ever want to use double quotes in SQL. Single quotes for everything else._


